So the plan for these images was to take template2.jpg and fill them with one
letter at a time, as in a bunch of a's not just a single one. So I filled
template2 with a's, renamed it to a.jpg, and copied that 28 times and renamed
the resulting files with the rest of the alphabet. Having done this I opened
the files one at a time and replaced the a's in the picture with the letter that
the picture was named after. First though, I opened every image at the same to
time to "save" time. This led to the machine running out of ram and swap memory
and crashed. Lesson learned. This process all worked fine until I came to the
k-l-m-n. These letters acted differently. The exact same amount of characters as
the previous ones, but there was still a grey bar at the bottom of the image.
This made me believe I had made a mistake somewhere and I restarted the process.

This time I was more meticulous, but the results were the same. This time I
continued making the images and wanted to do the check as I had finished all the
images. In the end, I notcied some things I found strange. Most of the images,
were fine, there seemed to be some patterns in how the images looked. But there
were also some that did not work. K and m, and n, q and s, turned out the same.
Grey bar at the bottom, and looked otherwise exactly the same. E, g, and v, also
share a lot of similarities. No grey field on these though. G and v are exactly
the same. Æ, ø, å, all ended up the same because there is no æøå in the ASCII
alphabet. In the end though I got several interesting results and a lot of the
imgages looked quite good too!

This has also created some questions for me. Why kmnqs did not work unlike the
rest, is there a problem with the specific bytes in use in these images? Why
did g and v end up looking the same?
